22.1_next-js-features.md, before:

#Next.js other features and syntax

1. Importing image and using it
    - In react we can import an image and can directly use it
    - In Next.js we have to do the same import but while using it we have to use the `src` property 

```
import logoImg from './assets/logo.png;


export default function MainHeader() {
  return (
    <header>
      <Link href="/">
        <img src={logoImg.src} alt="A plate with food on it" />
        Next Level Food
      </Link>
    </header>  
  );
}
```

2. Tailwind is the most popular framework for `Next.JS`, But CSS modules are also used.

3. Image element
   - `Next.JS` provides a special element `Image` to use images in components
   - This element has a lot of props and configuration that we can provide to it.
   - We have to pass the whole object instead of `src` only
   - It loads image lazily means loads the image only when it is needed.
   - Priority is to load the image on priority when needed
   - Image element needs to know the width and height of the image that we are loading using it, if the image is present in the folder like assets then `NextJS` can get this detail but if the user is uploading any image, or we are getting the link of the image from database then `NextJS` cannot check the size. In that case we can use fill as a property on `Image` element.
   - Alternate to `fill` is to mention width and height property if it is known.

```
import logoImg from './assets/logo.png;


export default function MainHeader() {
  return (
    <header>
      <Link href="/">
        <Image src={logoImg} alt="A plate with food on it" priority/>
        Next Level Food
      </Link>
    </header>  
  );
}
```

```
<Image src={logoImg} alt="A plate with food on it" priority fill/>
```

1. We cannot directly have selector type of CSS in module CSS classes like `h1, div`. It needs to be in some other CSS class like

``` Not allowed
h1 {                        
  color: 'white'              
}

```

```
.div-sections h1 {
  color: 'white'
}

```

5. React server components vs Client components
   - By default in `Next.JS` all the components are React server components means they get rendered on server.
   - Only the finished HTML code that is transferred to the client
   - We can have client side components in `Next.JS`
   - They are pre-rendered on the server and then also potentially render on the client.
   - Hooks like `useState` and `useEffect` are not available on the server components
   - Event handlers are also not available in server components like `onClick`, `onChange`.
   - We can use `use client` directive in component to make a server side component to a client side component
   - Try to add `use client` directive as low in the component tree as possible.

```
'use client';

import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
export default function ImageSlideshow() {
  ...
}

```

6. `usePathname` hook
   - Used to get the current active path
   - Can be used to add the active CSS class on the link based on the current path

```
import { usePathname } from "next/navigation";

export default function MainHeader() {
  const path = usePathname();
  return (
    <>
      <header>
        <nav className={classes.nav}>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <Link href="/meals" className={path.startsWith("/meals")? classes.active : undefined}>Browse Meals</Link>
            </li>
            <li>
              <Link href="/community" className={path.startsWith("/community")? classes.active : undefined}>Foodies Community</Link>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </header>
    </>
  );
}
```

Commit message:

adding db in next.js application

22.1_next-js-features.md, after:

#Next.js other features and syntax

1. Importing image and using it
    - In react we can import an image and can directly use it
    - In Next.js we have to do the same import but while using it we have to use the `src` property 

```
import logoImg from './assets/logo.png;


export default function MainHeader() {
  return (
    <header>
      <Link href="/">
        <img src={logoImg.src} alt="A plate with food on it" />
        Next Level Food
      </Link>
    </header>  
  );
}
```

2. Tailwind is the most popular framework for `Next.JS`, But CSS modules are also used.

3. Image element
   - `Next.JS` provides a special element `Image` to use images in components
   - This element has a lot of props and configuration that we can provide to it.
   - We have to pass the whole object instead of `src` only
   - It loads image lazily means loads the image only when it is needed.
   - Priority is to load the image on priority when needed
   - Image element needs to know the width and height of the image that we are loading using it, if the image is present in the folder like assets then `NextJS` can get this detail but if the user is uploading any image, or we are getting the link of the image from database then `NextJS` cannot check the size. In that case we can use fill as a property on `Image` element.
   - Alternate to `fill` is to mention width and height property if it is known.

```
import logoImg from './assets/logo.png;


export default function MainHeader() {
  return (
    <header>
      <Link href="/">
        <Image src={logoImg} alt="A plate with food on it" priority/>
        Next Level Food
      </Link>
    </header>  
  );
}
```

```
<Image src={logoImg} alt="A plate with food on it" priority fill/>
```

4. We cannot directly have selector type of CSS in module CSS classes like `h1, div`. It needs to be in some other CSS class like

``` Not allowed
h1 {                        
  color: 'white'              
}

```

```
.div-sections h1 {
  color: 'white'
}

```

5. React server components vs Client components
   - By default in `Next.JS` all the components are React server components means they get rendered on server.
   - Only the finished HTML code that is transferred to the client
   - We can have client side components in `Next.JS`
   - They are pre-rendered on the server and then also potentially render on the client.
   - Hooks like `useState` and `useEffect` are not available on the server components
   - Event handlers are also not available in server components like `onClick`, `onChange`.
   - We can use `use client` directive in component to make a server side component to a client side component
   - Try to add `use client` directive as low in the component tree as possible.

```page.js
'use client';

import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
export default function ImageSlideshow() {
  ...
}

```

6. `usePathname` hook
   - Used to get the current active path
   - Can be used to add the active CSS class on the link based on the current path

```page.js
import { usePathname } from "next/navigation";

export default function MainHeader() {
  const path = usePathname();
  return (
    <>
      <header>
        <nav className={classes.nav}>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <Link href="/meals" className={path.startsWith("/meals")? classes.active : undefined}>Browse Meals</Link>
            </li>
            <li>
              <Link href="/community" className={path.startsWith("/community")? classes.active : undefined}>Foodies Community</Link>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </header>
    </>
  );
}
```

7. Setting up a local lite SQL database

```command
  npm install better-sqlite3
```

8. Fetching data from database
   - In React we use to use `useEffect` hook to call the backend to fetch the data
   - But the `Next.JS` works as both frontend and backend, so we don't need to use this hook.
   -
